# How has the population of people in different age groups changed from 1900 to 2000?

## Understanding how the number of people in different age groups has changed over the past century

The question I sought out to answer through this visualization was 
how the dataset can show the change in the number of people in different age groups over the past century. When approaching this dataset, I initially wanted to group the populations by not only year, but also gender. But I found that it was actually more appropriate to approach this problem with groups of both time and gender because it better shows some of the differences between both time and gender. I also thought of the best way to visualize this data, and determined that bar charts would not be an effective manner of visualizing this data because there would be too many individual bars, and would not be effective in seeing the trends and differences between the population of people amongst different times, genders, and age groups. In addition, a scatter plot would not be effective for the same reason, as we would not be able to effectively see the trends and the changes from age group to age group as we can clearly see through a line plot.

At first glance, we can clearly see that the overall population has increased over the past 100 years for both men and women, and across all age groups. We can also clearly see that in 1900, the number of people in each age group steadily declined as the age groups got older and older, while we experience an increase in population of people in the different age groups in 2000 before declining as the age groups get older. We can hypothesize that this is because of more advanced technology, improved healthcare and studies in healthy living, and developments in science.

When we observe the relationship between the number of people in different age groups in 2000, we can clearly see that there are more males in the age group of 0-5, but as we approach the age groups of older than 50 years, there are more females in the total population. We can also clearly see that in 1900, the number of males and females across each age group were very close to each other. Although the number of males and females in 2000 amongst the different age groups is relatively similar at times, there are still many age groups where there are slightly larger differences between the number of males and females in those group. One thing to note when we look at our data is that the number of people in the different age groups (represented by the y-axis) is by the millions, so seemingly small disparities are actually large amounts of people.

One clear difference we can observe between 1900 and 2000 amongst the age groups is that when we approach the group for 90+ years of age, the 1900 census reported that the population is incredibly small for both genders in people of that age group. However, in 2000, the census reports show that there are a much greater number of people who are alive past 90 years old, and especially females who are alive in the 90+ age group.